---
title: Economy - When to Spend Gold
draft: false
tags:
  - resource-management
---
The strength of your board will roughly correlate with the amount of gold you have spent. Spending gold on XP is obvious: being higher level gives you more units on your board and greater access to higher cost units. Spending gold on rolls will allow you to see more units, meaning you are more likely to have upgraded units. The more gold you've spent rolling, the closer you (theoretically) get to a "handpicked" board, because with infinite gold, you wouldn't stop rolling until you had exactly everything as you wanted. 

However, this gold spent on rolling can only make you as strong as your potential upgrades; if you already have your desired 4-cost units upgraded to 2-stars, spending more gold rolling on your current level likely won't yield any additional strength. This means that as the game goes on, gold actually becomes *less* valuable because the amount of potential improvements to make to your board begins to decrease. 

All of this is to essentially say that the purpose of rolling should be to increase the strength of your board, not pray to god something good happens. So, conversely, **you should roll when you want your board to become stronger**. Another addendum is that it's best to roll when it is *likely* for rolling to actually result in a stronger board. This can mean having pairs waiting to be upgraded or looking for a new unit altogether. The latter is most often seen upon leveling, due to having gained access to higher cost units and having an extra slot on the board to fill.

## When do I want to be stronger?
The corollary above allows us to reframe the question of when to roll (or level) as "when do I want to be stronger?" While this is still a loaded question, there is a more clearly defined directive compared to a question of spending gold. This question can also be further broken down into a series of smaller decisions.

### Do I even want to be stronger?
If you are currently lose streaking and would like to preserve your streak in order to maximize econ, you may not want to increase your board strength. However, keep in mind that this gold comes at the cost of your HP and may increase your susceptibility to variance later in the game. In this event, the hope is that your increased economy will be enough to reduce that variance, this mitigating your greater susceptibility to it.

### Do I even *need* to be stronger?
There are two situations where you do not need to be stronger. The first is when you are already strong enough to win the fights you want to win. Say, for example, that you are currently on 3-5 with an 8-round win-streak. You may feel incentivized to break econ and level or roll (or both) to increase your board strength and protect your streak, which is a great instinct! However, if you scout your matchups and see your opponents are all relatively weak, your streak will be maintained without reducing your gold from interest thresholds, effectively earning a few extra gold where you otherwise wouldn't have.

As another example, say you are on your 4-2 level 8 rolldown. You have rolled down to 30 gold and currently have a 2-star carry but only 1 copy of your main tank. You may be tempted to continue rolling until you get your tank to 2-star as well, but consider if doing so is actually necessary. With only 1 copy, you still need to find 2 copies of your tank to upgrade it, which is a bit of a gamble on 30 gold. Continuing to roll would also significantly reduce your ability to make back econ thresholds, thus costing much more than the immediately apparent 30 gold, or even the initial differences in interest gold generated. If these fights are necessary to win, it might be worth it, but you should scout to see if you are likely to already win your upcoming fights without the upgrade.

Spending gold on board strength unnecessarily will cause you to win fights that you would have won anyways, thereby reducing the gold available to you throughout the game via interest and lowering the possible cap for your board. In minor cases, this means you'll still win with an inferior version of your final board. In extreme cases, however, this could mean gradually falling behind the power curve of the lobby as other players spend their gold more wisely and losing every single late game fight to go 8th (this has happened to me and is actually very realistic).

The second situation in which you do not need to be stronger is a special case of [[#Do I even want to be stronger?]] This is a case where your strategy is to play a "lose-streak into winout" game, and is dependent on an appropriate comp existing within the meta of the patch you are playing on. As the name suggests, the general plan is to lose the first 10 player combats—the entirety of stage 2 and 3. This allows you to guarantee the maximum amount of economy possible (unless someone else intentionally loses to you), so that you have access to huge amounts of gold on 4-2 for your level 8 rolldown, essentially granting you the ability to handpick your units. You will often be searching for a fairly rigid set of units with perhaps some flexible options among a few 5 cost champions. This comp needs to be capable of defeating every other comp in order to compensate for the amount of HP lost in the first 2 stages of the game, since a single loss could spell the end of the game. See [[Comp Archetypes]] for more details.

### Remaining HP
Being low HP means that a single bad fight could be the end of your game. This could mean getting an unlucky rolldown, unlucky matchmaking, or unlucky fight RNG (targeting shenanigans, weird crits, etc.). To avoid reaching the point that a single factor not going your way could cause you to go 8th, you may feel incentivized to roll in the midgame to "make back" the HP you lost early game. Since level 8 players likely won't roll until stage 4, you have a good chance to consistently win fights through stage 3 this way. However, this more or less commits you to playing reroll, since your timing to reach level 8 and still have enough gold to hit upgrades will be significantly later than players who did not roll during stage 3.